exercises/practice/luhn/.docs/instructions.md, before:

# Instructions

Given a number determine whether or not it is valid per the Luhn formula.

The [Luhn algorithm][luhn] is a simple checksum formula used to validate a variety of identification numbers, such as credit card numbers and Canadian Social Insurance Numbers.

The task is to check if a given string is valid.

## Validating a Number

Strings of length 1 or less are not valid.
Spaces are allowed in the input, but they should be stripped before checking.
All other non-digit characters are disallowed.

### Example 1: valid credit card number

```text
4539 3195 0343 6467
```

The first step of the Luhn algorithm is to double every second digit, starting from the right.
We will be doubling

```text
4539 3195 0343 6467
↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  (double these)
```

If doubling the number results in a number greater than 9 then subtract 9 from the product.
The results of our doubling:

```text
8569 6195 0383 3437
```

Then sum all of the digits:

```text
8+5+6+9+6+1+9+5+0+3+8+3+3+4+3+7 = 80
```

If the sum is evenly divisible by 10, then the number is valid.
This number is valid!

### Example 2: invalid credit card number

```text
8273 1232 7352 0569
```

Double the second digits, starting from the right

```text
7253 2262 5312 0539
```

Sum the digits

```text
7+2+5+3+2+2+6+2+5+3+1+2+0+5+3+9 = 57
```

57 is not evenly divisible by 10, so this number is not valid.

[luhn]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm

Commit message:

Refine Luhn instructions for clarity and structure
Improved the phrasing of Luhn formula explanations for better readability. Added a clearer breakdown of valid and invalid number examples, reorganized sections, and ensured consistent formatting.

exercises/practice/luhn/.docs/instructions.md, after:

# Instructions

Determine whether a number is valid according to the [Luhn formula][luhn].

The number will be provided as a string.

## Validating a number

Strings of length 1 or less are not valid.
Spaces are allowed in the input, but they should be stripped before checking.
All other non-digit characters are disallowed.

## Examples

### Valid credit card number

The number to be checked is `4539 3195 0343 6467`.

The first step of the Luhn algorithm is to start at the end of the number and double every second digit, beginning with the second digit from the right and moving left.

```text
4539 3195 0343 6467
↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  ↑ ↑  (double these)
```

If the result of doubling a digit is greater than 9, we subtract 9 from that result.
We end up with:

```text
8569 6195 0383 3437
```

Finally, we sum all digits.
If the sum is evenly divisible by 10, the original number is valid.

```text
8 + 5 + 6 + 9 + 6 + 1 + 9 + 5 + 0 + 3 + 8 + 3 + 3 + 4 + 3 + 7 = 80
```

80 is evenly divisible by 10, so number `4539 3195 0343 6467` is valid!

### Invalid Canadian SIN

The number to be checked is `066 123 468`.

We start at the end of the number and double every second digit, beginning with the second digit from the right and moving left.

```text
066 123 478
 ↑  ↑ ↑  ↑  (double these)
```

If the result of doubling a digit is greater than 9, we subtract 9 from that result.
We end up with:

```text
036 226 458
```

We sum the digits:

```text
0 + 3 + 6 + 2 + 2 + 6 + 4 + 5 + 8 = 36
```

36 is not evenly divisible by 10, so number `066 123 478` is not valid!

[luhn]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm
